[LOW RUMBLING]
[CHIMES]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief"
with our special guest
today, Randy Veitenheimer.
He's been a student
and practitioner
of martial arts, yoga,
energetic medicine
for more than 40 years.
He works with
individuals, corporations,
in the fields of energy
and consciousness.
Randy is an author and the
host of a new series on Gaia
that you've got to watch
called the "Quantum Effect".
Randy welcome to the program.
>>RANDY VEITENHEIMER:
Happy to be here.
I'm pleased to meet you.
>> NOORY: Randy, it's not every
day that somebody gets involved
in energy and consciousness.
How did this all happen for
you to create it as a career?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well, you
don't normally seek it out
as a career, especially
40 years ago.
But one of the things
about studying martial arts
is once you learn the
exterior martial arts, and all
the movements everything,
you advance to a state
where you go into
internal martial arts.
And internal martial arts were
rarely taught in this country
back in the 70s.
And then, at the
same time, yoga,
once you advance
to a certain level,
they start talking
about energy flow,
and start talking about
your energy field,
and things like that.
And so, the more I
got off into those,
the more I practiced them,
the more interested I became,
and I had a
background in physics,
and I was trying to
assimilate the language,
and the experiences, and the
teachings I was receiving.
>> NOORY: This work of combining
energy and consciousness,
is it unusual or does that
happen a lot for people?
>> VEITENHEIMER: The problem
becomes that all your conscious
existence is driven by energy.
You either have
energy or you don't.
>> NOORY: Or you don't.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Or you don't.
It's very simple.
All illnesses, all
disease is lack
of energy or too much supporting
either the good or the bad.
So if you have a health issue,
you have an energy issue.
You have an energy problem.
And it's real simple.
I mean, in physics, they
call it Delta 5 or delta-v,
meaning you either
accelerate the energy
or you decelerate it in order
to get to a different point.
And, of course, the same thing
happens when you have a cold
or even a minor
illness is you're
applying more energy to it.
It's kind of like why
you're always tired.
So most people are always tired,
but you can learn techniques.
You can learn routines-- and
I describe them in the book
I'm writing--
where you learn to maintain
a constant level of energy,
or even an increased
level of energy.
>> NOORY: And when
you talk about energy,
it's not just merely,
hi, how are you?
I'm feeling good.
It's something else, isn't it?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, because
the thing that science has
never addressed is
life force, right?
>> NOORY: Right.
>> VEITENHEIMER: So we
talk about DC Electric,
Direct Current.
We talk about
alternating current.
And that's our language.
And people say, well,
how come you use
words like voltage and stuff?
Well, we're just
borrowing language,
but nobody ever came
up with LC, life force,
it's a bioelectric charge.
And bioelectric is
different than AC or DC,
but it is a form of
electricity or energy.
So we want to look at that.
What is the life force
that flows through you?
Nobody answers it.
And so, this is
basically what I've
been chasing for 30 40 years.
>> NOORY: Why are those people
who have healing properties
about them able to heal people
by rubbing their hands over
their bodies?
Sometimes not even
touching the body.
But it seems to work.
I mean, we've heard cases
and cases if these things.
>> VEITENHEIMER: It's
a phenomena in China.
It's called medical qigong,
Q-I-G-O-N-G therapy.
It's something I've studied,
again, for 30 or 40 years.
>> NOORY: So like chi-gong?
>> VEITENHEIMER:
Qiging, gigong, ligong.
There's a bunch of
gongs out there.
[LAUGHTER]
And the thing about it is
you have an energy field.
And that energy field
has information in it.
And somebody with a stronger
energy feel can override yours.
So the exercise in
internal martial arts,
qigong, the internal practices
of advanced yoga techniques,
is that you have more
energy in your energy field
to be able to override either
the memory or the frequency
information flow that's
creating the illness, cancer,
all kinds of things.
So a person can develop to
where they have excess energy.
The technique is very simple.
It's kind of like patent
somebody on the back.
You're giving them energy.
You're giving them
energy of concern,
and hope, and all kinds
of other emotions.
But think about if you had
enough energy and access
to be able to alter what's
going on with that person.
I do it all the time.
Mainly, because I have
a bigger energy field.
>> NOORY: Can you feel
yourself helping somebody?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, and
some people respond to it.
Some people are aware of it.
I had a client,
she was in her 80s.
It's embarrassing, she said
every time I touch her,
she gets a tingly feeling.
And then-- she's a great lady.
But then, other
people don't notice.
I've had people call me and say
they didn't notice anything.
But two days later, it's
like the problem is gone.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> VEITENHEIMER: So the language
is, I'm able to, let's say,
generate enough excess energy
to change what's going on in you
to the degree you
can be changed.
And that's why
it's a 50-50 deal.
>> NOORY: How long does it
take to do this to somebody?
Is it instantaneous?
Does it take weeks?
>> VEITENHEIMER: No, I had a
client came to me one time.
He said, I don't have an hour.
>> NOORY: I don't have an hour.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah.
Can you do this any faster?
And I said, I can
do it in 14 seconds,
but it makes some major shifts
in your conscious and stuff,
and I don't know how
you'll deal with that.
He said, well, I'll pay
you for the 14 seconds,
so it's resetting all the
field meridians in the body,
is one way to look at it.
It's increasing the
size of the energy field
is another way to look at it.
Because if you have more energy,
you're going to fix yourself.
>> NOORY: Are you like
a lightning bolt rod?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Sometimes
people experience excess energy
flow.
I try to keep it even.
>> NOORY: Moderate.
>> VEITENHEIMER:
Around moderate, yeah.
>> NOORY: Your first
episode of "Quantum Effect"
from Gaia is a dramatic show.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> VEITENHEIMER: Everybody
asks the question, who are you?
But I ask the
question, what are you?
I am Randy Veitenheimer
and for years I
have been studying with
some of the top masters
of the world that deal with
the idea of consciousness.
Today, I want to offer a
new view on consciousness
that I hope might help you
remove locks and get you
back to who you are.
[THEME MUSIC]
So what is consciousness?
The greatest thing about
being human is consciousness.
In fact, it's the only thing
that defines our existence.
Consciousness is awareness
of one's self existence
and existence as self.
This is the duality.
Consciousness is self awareness
and awareness of the self.
There have been many attempts
to examine consciousness.
What is it?
How's it work?
The current model is breaking
down human consciousness
into subcategories, per Freud.
He broke consciousness
down into three layers,
the alert consciousness,
the subconsciousness,
and unconsciousness.
In my opinion, consciousness
is not layered or subdivided.
It is homogeneous.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When we deal with
human consciousness,
we also deal with a collective
consciousness of humanity,
and not as a separate,
but as an integrated
part of human consciousness
and knowledge.
We can examine human
collective consciousness.
What does it mean to be human?
What does it mean to share
a collective consciousness,
to share and be a part of
a collective consciousness
identity?
Group consciousness,
religion, family, politics,
tribal consciousness,
creative consciousness, these
are all aspects of what
it means to be human.
And if you are human, you
are human as a species
and as an individual.
>> NOORY: Well done, Randy.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Thank you.
>> NOORY: And it all ties
together, doesn't it?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
Yes, it ties together because
we don't have the awareness as
a rule of where our
thoughts or even where
our life force comes from.
You explore it through
meditation, and contemplation,
and things like that.
But one of the things we
never address is ourselves.
When somebody says, I'm
George or I'm Randy,
what does that mean and
what's the truth of it?
And so, that was part of the
key to understanding things
about the human consciousness
and human awareness.
And that is like we
could look at somebody
and through calibration go,
how George is George today?
How much energy do you
have along your spine?
How much connection do you have
with all your past experiences?
How many inputs do you have?
And those four things,
or five things,
start giving me a picture
of where you are today.
So when somebody says
they have a problem,
we want to look at all that,
because just not being yourself
allows for room to
have experiences maybe
you wouldn't want to.
And then, the connections
you have to your past
and experiences open you
up to other experiences
or connections that, again,
may be beneficial or not.
So some people
call all that karma
on what I call the
right side, but we
want to know how you are you.
The average person out there,
loves this, is usually 2% or 3%
themselves.
The rest are
consciouses involved
in collective consciousness,
or group things,
or things like that.
And there's all kinds of
information about that.
But when I reset somebody, I
reset and be 100% themselves,
100% energy flow, and be
able to have a connection
to understand an awareness
of when they have energy,
when they don't, and
when they're themselves
and when they're not.
>> NOORY: When you're with
somebody who needs a healing,
do you find that almost in
every case when you talk to them
before the healing that there's
some issue, or something wrong,
or something that's happened
to them in their life?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well,
if you're not yourself,
something happened.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> VEITENHEIMER: So up
to about six years old,
most people are themselves.
But it's a rare thing to come
back to yourself at 100%.
It usually only occurs
either through contemplation,
meditation, some esoteric
techniques, or you
get to the end of your
life where you literally
come back to yourself.
You're aware of your
whole existence.
And so, automatically when
I sat down with somebody,
the first thing is
how George is George?
How president is the president.
I mean we can pick anybody
because the information's
in the field.
So I don't read people.
I connect to the
information field.
And out of that
information field,
you can draw
information on anything.
>> NOORY: What makes somebody
come to you in the first place,
Randy?
What's their issue.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Generally
I never advertise.
It's all word of mouth.
So I've had clients all over
the country, all over the world.
And the reason--
part of the reason
is, if somebody knows
somebody that I've worked on,
I don't have to explain it.
So it makes it a little easier.
But generally,
they're referrals,
and they cover the entire
range of the human condition
and human illness.
And the experiences and
problems that we have,
physical, mental, emotional,
spiritual, psychic,
psychological, these are all
aspects of our consciousness.
And everybody's different.
Everybody is unique
in their percentages.
>> NOORY: When you're
trying to help somebody,
how important is it
that they help himself?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well--
>> NOORY: Or can you just
do the whole thing for them?
>> VEITENHEIMER:
Remember, 50/50.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> VEITENHEIMER: I can make the
changes to the degree they can
be changed.
>> NOORY: They've got
to meet you halfway.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Right.
But sometimes it's
easier on others
than it is, again, it's that
uniqueness of each individual
and everything that combines to
create their present reality.
So usually, I give
them exercises,
or reading materials,
or things that will
support whatever I'm doing.
And those can be
everything from supplements
to certain practices,
especially physical practices.
>> But can you reach somebody
who is a little hesitant?
You know, somebody-- what if
somebody comes to you and goes,
I don't know if this
is going to work.
>> The state they're in is that
they're getting more energy
from being the way they
are than being different.
So it's hard to understand
that some people get energy
from being sick.
Have you ever skipped school
and told mom, I have a headache?
>> Never.
I never did.
>> I never--
>> I was always there.
>> I'll confess,
I tried it once,
and I couldn't
stand missing out.
>> I once got an award from
high school for not missing.
I mean I was always there.
Sick, I came in,
and everything else.
I don't know why I did that.
>> Well, you liked being there.
>> I did.
>> Yeah, and I'm the same way.
So when you do that, the
benefit of being healthy
versus benefit of
being unhealthy.
The benefit you get
from high emotion
or negative emotional
states can be
sufficient to override
your entire health regimen,
and especially if you stay
in it for a long time.
So we say, don't be
depressed for a long time.
Don't be anxious.
And let me explain
both of those.
It's just energy flow to the
upper right side of the brain
is depression.
I mean, anxiety.
I'm sorry, anxiety.
And this is depression.
So you have energy
flowing up your spine.
It's energized in that
area of the brain.
That brain is going into
production of neurochemistry.
And the outcome, we call
depression or anxiety.
Now, it takes about three
seconds to change that.
I'd have one of my clients
say you should just
set up a booth on
the corner for $.05
and just turn on or turn off,
because literally that's what
it is.
That process is
turned on, and it's
turned on and fed by energy.
And it's kind of
like a light switch.
And that's a lot of ways to look
at acupuncture, which nobody
really explains what's
going on, but you're
flipping a light switch.
You're flipping a
switch that alters
the energy flow in the body.
If you don't support a health
condition, it goes away.
Everybody's had a
cold and it went away.
>> Sure.
You've talked about life
force and quantum effect.
>> Right.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As a healer, we work
with life force.
We may work with all the
different energies that
are referred to in fourth level
physics, particle physics,
quantum physics.
But ultimately, we're
working with life force.
It's a different energy.
It may be inclusive of
everything we've talked about,
but is not separate.
And it is also not complete
with the level of physics
we currently understand.
What's interesting is
that around the world,
other people have approached
us from different viewpoints.
Konstantin Korotkow in Russia
and some of his associates,
have decided to work
with life force itself.
They've done it with people who
have extreme physical issues.
Maybe they were born
without eyesight.
And yet, as part
of their studies,
they were able to
develop in a person
the ability to see
using their life force,
using their energy field.
Additional studies they
did were on dead people.
The ideal that there
is energy in the body,
and that its form has
some sort of existence,
some sort of physicality
which is not explained just
in the physical nature of the
soul, but as an etheric form,
as an energy form, that exists
prior to and after you die.
He wants to find the
receptacle for life.
Konstantin's efforts
and experiments
are very good reading.
There there's
something that I think
people should become
familiar with,
in the same way Elisabeth Kubler
Ross wrote on death and dying.
These are all subjects that
explore the life force.
They don't explore
quantum physics
as it applies to human beings.
So why is this important
for you to know?
Because if you know you can
start to separate your body
energy from life
force energy, you
can separate zero
and one reality.
>> NOORY: Randy, exactly
what is life force energy?
What is that?
>> VEITENHEIMER: That's the
great question of the ages
to me.
>> NOORY: It is?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Because
where does it come from?
What's the signature
or frequency
of that, because we know
when you pass on it's
no longer present.
So automatically--
>> NOORY: So it leaves
the body when you die?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well,
you quit receiving it.
It doesn't leave, because
you're in a constant resupply.
>> NOORY: It's like
turning on a radio, right?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
And so, one of
things in my research
is that the human
being reorganizes--
it's a frequency problem.
one 10,020th of a second,
that's what I came up with.
Every 10,020th second, you
get recharged, re-energized,
something.
And that frequency, I've
been tracking and trying
to understand because,
again, science tells you
all kinds of things
about the atom,
but they don't tell you
where life force originates.
How is it broadcast?
What's the receiving mechanism?
I mean, these are all
important questions,
and this is why I drive
myself crazy every day
doing the research on?
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> VEITENHEIMER: So there
is a distinct difference.
One of the things too,
is quantum physics,
quantum mechanics, is
a borrowed language.
We borrow that
language so we can
use it to try to describe things
that people are not describing.
So I think there should be
a Manhattan Project on life
force, because once you
understand life force,
there's no reason
for you to get sick.
There's no reason
for you to age.
I mean, it goes
on forever, right?
>> NOORY: Sometimes we
tap into it accidentally--
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, yes.
>> NOORY: Don't we?
>> VEITENHEIMER: And people
have varying degrees of not only
interaction, but to use the
language of the connection,
how strong a connection like
you have with another person.
Well, same thing
with life force.
You can become depressed
and to the point
that you no longer receive it.
You block it.
>> NOORY: You just shut it off.
>> VEITENHEIMER: You go away.
Yeah, you go away.
But integration,
synchronization, and congruency
are terms that I use
for how life force works
in the human body.
>> NOORY: Is life force, Randy,
different from energy force?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
Yes.
It's a frequency
band and signature
that I don't have the funding
or research equipment in order
to explore.
It's like the people at--
the man who did the
gravity wave experiments.
Millions and millions of
dollars to detect gravity waves,
and there's not
millions and millions
of dollars available
for somebody trying
to determine life
force, because think
about what a revolution
that would be in the world
to finally have some
understanding of how
this body's energize, because
Cheerios and donuts don't
do it, or coffee.
>> NOORY: If you had this
ability to combine your power,
and your force, your energy
force with your life force,
what does that do for
you as an individual?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well,
as martial artists,
it gives you
incredible abilities.
And so some of it is
mythical, like when you see
the films, the Kung Fu films.
The thing is--
>> NOORY: Or Bruce Lee
and stuff like that.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah,
Bruce Lee and Hidden Dragon,
and you know it's like
there's a basis for those.
And for somebody who's
done internal martial arts,
like in Kung Fu,
I've experienced
some of those
experiences and developed
some of those techniques.
And one of them, is to be
able just touch somebody
and drop them to the ground.
And people say, oh no--
>> NOORY: It happens,
does something.
>> VEITENHEIMER:
Oh yes, it happens.
>> NOORY: Or you Don't
even have to touch them--
>> VEITENHEIMER: That's true.
>> NOORY: In some cases.
>> VEITENHEIMER: And
I used to tease some
of the choreographers
for those movies,
because of their technique,
we could call it.
Because the thing is, if you
collapse the human energy
field, you're dead, right?
If you ground it out,
if you are electrocuted,
those are all phenomena
that are trying
to give us a hint that there's
things going on that really we
should explore and
be able to explain.
And the great thing
about science,
is science does not
explain life force.
They don't touch it.
But it's totally
outside science.
There's no support for it.
Nobody is out there
trying to fund it.
And yet, to me, it's one of
the most important questions
that could ever be answered
about how do I exist.
>> NOORY: Can't you tell also
when you meet people what kind
of life force energy
they've got around them?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Mhm, one of
the things I teach is you should
have about a 9
foot energy field.
And today, you're at seven feet.
That's pretty healthy.
And I can interrogate your field
or anybody else's on the planet
just with a name.
But we can do
exercises and things
that allow us to develop
a bigger inner field.
And there's martial
arts techniques,
there's yoga techniques, all
these things are available.
>> NOORY: Different ways
to get into that mode.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah.
And once you explore it--
but the important
thing is once you
become aware you have a 9 foot
inner field, you immediately
become aware when it's less.
And that's one of the
things I teach my students.
You should be aware of
when you lose energy.
Now, if you get around somebody
has a big energy field,
we call them a
charismatic, right?
So there's people like the
president, Mick Jagger, movie
stars, they generally have
a 30 or 40 foot energy--
>> NOORY: They've got
an aura about them.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well,
that's what we call it.
And people want to be
around them, because they
want to take energy from them.
>> NOORY: Yes.
>> VEITENHEIMER:
And the way I teach,
and the way a normal human
is, energy comes this way.
It's a vertical energy flow
is one way to look at it,
whereas your interactions with
other humans is a horizontal.
And the thing about taking
energy from another person,
we call them vampires.
>> NOORY: Psychic vampires.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah, is
that that energy is tainted.
It's conditioned.
And so, therefore, it
may not be palatable.
It may not be
something you can use,
but everybody wants more energy.
Everybody wants more energy.
>> NOORY: Some
people, the psychics.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
>> NOORY: Vampires, are doing
this and they don't even know
it.
>> VEITENHEIMER:
That's true too.
And because their consciousness
is not fully energized,
that's the other thing.
Fully energized
consciousness is real simple.
We call it enlightenment.
>> NOORY: I mean, how
many people, Randy,
have been at a
party or someplace,
and you're around someone that
you have to get away from.
You just don't want
to be around them.
It's not that
they're bad people,
but you just have that
feeling that they exhaust
and drain you just by
standing next to them.
These are the psychic
vampires aren't they?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
Yes, and if you are
not self-sufficient
with your energy,
which is accomplished
by being alive and
being receptive to life
force, or biological
energy, then you
want to get more energy
because generally you're off,
or you need it.
It's kind of like
money, we would say.
It's just an equivalent.
And you could use more.
But these people don't have
the conscious to realize
that they're being a vampire,
that they are sucking
energy from another person.
And so, even there,
you can't even
hardly tell them
without them getting
more angry, and more negative.
>> NOORY: Right, because
they won't believe you,
first of all.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, and the
more negative they become,
the more energy they get.
So people that make you mad,
you are contributing to them.
>> NOORY: But don't
they realize, Randy,
that there's something
wrong with them, themselves?
Don't they get it?
>> VEITENHEIMER: No.
They are not capable of
self-assessment, self-awareness
at that level.
So Dr. David Hawkins wrote
a book, "Power VS Force",
and he talks about this.
And he has a chart in there,
and most people misuse it.
But if we look at that
chart, under a certain level
of consciousness, he uses
200, those people are not
capable of self-assessment
or self awareness,
but they're involved
in a frequency band,
and that's an information
flow from the collective
consciousness, or the universe,
whatever you want to call it,
and what that does
is it locks them in.
I'm an angry person.
I'm an apathetic person.
I'm a depressed person.
I'm a guilty person
or shamed person.
These are all low level
negative consciousness.
And if you are above that, and
you get around those people,
you generally have aversion.
I don't want to be around that.
It's just automatic, but
it's automatic from a level
of consciousness, and
nobody's ever explained that.
Why do you not want
to be around them?
>> NOORY: But that's a defensive
mechanism that our body has,
right?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
>> NOORY: It's to
protect ourself.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes,
your self-protecting
and self-supporting because you
need your life force to support
your body, your existence,
your consciousness.
>> NOORY: Can somebody be so
powerful with a life force
and an energy force, that not
even the psychic vampire can
bother them?
That they exude so much energy,
they don't even feel it?
>> VEITENHEIMER: OK, so
remember we said about 9 feet?
>> NOORY: Mhm.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Around 9 feet,
you start being less receptive,
is the language, to illness,
to negative thinking,
negative consciousness.
Being around positive people,
generally, a really positive
person is not somebody
that broadcasts that.
They just have a presence.
>> NOORY: It's just there.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah.
>> NOORY: They've got it.
>> VEITENHEIMER: I'm healthy.
I'm present.
>> NOORY: You can feel it
when they walk in the room.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Right.
And the ideal condition of a
human being is a two-year-old.
You look at the
energy around them.
They're born with a 30,
40, 50 foot energy field.
Everybody wants to pick them
up, hold them, buy them clothes,
cart them around.
And then, I tell people, you to
be 21 and buy your own clothes,
buy your own--
nobody wants to hug you, right?
And it's the phenomena, the
fact that your inner field has
shrunk.
But if it's stayed the same,
oh wow, you're a charismatic.
You're a movie star.
You're somebody popular.
You know, it just
goes on and on, right?
And so, that's why
people want to be
around people that are positive
or have a big energy field.
And that's why people don't
want to be around people
that negative energy field.
It's just a polarity balance.
>> NOORY: What is
transdimensional interaction?
>> VEITENHEIMER:
You ever dreamed?
>> NOORY: Many times.
>> VEITENHEIMER: So when we
talk about frequency bands,
we can also talk
about dimensions,
which is a language, I'm
not fond of by the way.
It's more of
information intersection
which is a whole other subject.
But those information
intersections
have their own reality.
So when you dream, there
was a study at Harvard,
that you take your
senses with you.
And, of course, I always like
poke somebody and go, hey, hey,
where are you.
And they go, I was
somewhere else.
And that started off all my
interests and exploration
into where did you go.
Like when you have a dream
state, where are you?
You're in another dimension.
>> NOORY: You're in
another world or something.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah, and it's
real because your senses are
present, and you're able to
see, and hear, and react.
>> NOORY: Oh, it's
like you're there.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah,
so that reality--
and that led into what I
call zero and one reality.
Number one reality is the
physical reality we exist in,
the one we interact with.
But zero reality is much bigger.
And it's the reality of
dreams, and imagination,
and all kinds of things
that are non-physical.
But it doesn't mean we
don't experience them.
So experiential consciousness
works in both of them.
And I call when you go over
into transitional dimensions,
you're interacting in an area
that you don't know the rules,
you don't know the population,
you don't know anything,
because have you ever
been afraid in a dream?
You ever fought in a dream.
>> NOORY: Yeah, I think.
And fall, everything else.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Oh yeah,
and you're experiencing that
the same way you
would in number one,
except you're experiencing
it without the physical body.
And that becomes
another key point
in my research about,
well, Tesla and Einstein,
they all kept a notebook
beside their bed,
and they would go
looking, or to some point,
looking for that information.
So one of the
things I've done is
develop a GPS of all that
alternate reality they call it,
all that dimensional
reality, because all
that information that they used
and came to them was available.
It was already extant.
In some way, they didn't develop
relativity or Tesla's ideas
of electromagnetism.
They just went out there
and found the information
and brought it back
and expressed it.
>> NOORY: And it
worked for them?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, and it
works for a lot of people.
And we can point to
it throughout history
where these are
major revelations
occur, right, and
then are dropped
into human consciousness.
>> NOORY: When we talk about
the true nature of reality,
what does that mean to you?
>> VEITENHEIMER: That's
another book I've been writing
for years and--
>> NOORY: Get it
done, would you.
>> VEITENHEIMER: It's
called proximate reality,
the theory of proximate,
approximate meaning
what's around you.
Like how far you can reach.
So I can reach this chair,
and the floor, and things,
those are proximate to me.
But I can't touch New
York City from right
here, not physically,
but I can close my eyes
and I can be there.
I can be there in my
imagination or I can actually
be there with my presence.
And so, that gets into
some Tibetan techniques
of bilocation and
things like that.
>> NOORY: Episode 6
six of "Quantum Effect"
talks about that.
>> VEITENHEIMER: You only occupy
a very small point of reality.
I call this the theory
of proximate reality.
So proximate reality
means that the center
of the universe, you, occupies
a very unique part of reality.
This theory explains that
your experiences are local,
and you are confined
to how far you
can reach with your presence.
Now, this reality
is situated away
from the center of the
universe, which is you.
You exist as the
point of attachment
to being yourself
in this reality.
The point of attachment
to this reality is you.
If you lose your point of
attachment, your body, you die.
So proximate reality is
the amount of reality
that you are in contact with
or have a relationship with.
So if you expand
your consciousness,
you are expanding the amount
of reality in your life.
>> NOORY: How many
people, Randy,
actually take the
time to do that,
to probe their inner
self like that?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Not very many.
It literally--
>> NOORY: I don't think so.
>> VEITENHEIMER: It literally
becomes fewer and fewer,
and I know that because
I've experienced it.
And that is, the more
you become involved
in looking at all this,
it's like, number one,
reality kind of disappears.
And you see this
and all the mystics
and all the scientists
that get so involved
in what's going on in
their consciousness
or what's going on
in zero reality,
that this one disappears.
We do it all the time.
That's what day dreaming is.
That's what creative
consciousness is.
Is that the more you involve
it, the more you remove yourself
from this reality.
So so we have people that
operate in number one reality,
and these are observations,
not judgments.
But construction and things
like that, you're intimately
involved with physical reality.
And then, we have people that
are creatives, or say design,
and architects, that
are involved in zero.
They're pulling it out of
the collective consciousness,
and they're pulling out
of the field itself,
the information field
that we're surrounded in.
So the theory of proximate
reality deals with--
I'll go ahead and
explain the set theory.
We have a reference set.
Your reference set right
now is we're in Boulder.
And you fly tomorrow,
you're somewhere else.
And then, you've
been in both places,
now you have preferences.
Which one do you like?
So this goes on constantly where
we're exploring our reference.
And then, we're
making preferences.
And then, we get
into organization.
We organize ourselves
about living in LA
or living in Boulder.
And then, it just keeps going.
There's like five subsets.
And really with
those, we can start
explaining what reality is
much more to a greater degree
than it is what it.
Is
>> NOORY: To you, what is
the human energy field?
What is that?
>> VEITENHEIMER: It's
the source of life,
but it's the source
of life as an outcome.
>> NOORY: And we all have it?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
If you're alive, the source
of life is an outcome for you
because you're alive.
And once you get away from that
source or disconnect from it,
you're not alive.
So the human energy
field is very simple.
Its energy flows-- current
flows through any wire.
It creates an
electromagnetic field.
And so, in the human
being, it's the spine,
and the energy flows
up and down the spine.
In Sanskrit it's called
Ida, Pingala, and Sushumna.
They refer to circuits or
channels of energy flow.
And as a flow up and down,
they create an energy field.
>> NOORY: Well, you have a
remarkable way of talking about
it in "Quantum Effect".
>> VEITENHEIMER: Most
people lack energy,
and are unable to maintain an
optimal existence in reality.
Lack of energy manifests as
illness, problems, and issues.
They show up in the body
as internal conflict
when your energy doesn't
match the incoming energy
or information.
All functions of the body
operate on electron flow,
on energy.
If you don't have enough,
then these systems
experience phenomena
similar to having
a dimmer switch on
that particular aspect
of your existence.
In an article published by
the University of Maryland
recently, they talk about
energy in the body this way.
The elements in our body, like
sodium, potassium, calcium,
and magnesium, have a
specific electrical charge.
This is the chemical basis for
life that they're promoting.
Almost all of our cells can use
these charged elements, called
ions, to generate electricity.
That is true, but there's
also outside energy flows
that also contribute to
our overall energy content.
The contents of the
cell are protected
from the outside environment
by a cell membrane.
Our energy field is protected
by a similar membrane.
I have given it the
name of a event horizon.
Just like your skin is the limit
of your physical existence,
your event horizon,
the absolute limit
of your electronic or
electromagnetic field,
is also a barrier to other
information or other energy
flows.
The cell membrane is
made up of lipids,
and they create a barrier
that only certain substances
can cross to reach
the cell interior.
Why don't we think of the human
body and the human energy field
in the same way?
Why wouldn't we set
up our energy field
and do practices that allow for
the energetic interaction that
occurs at the limit of our
energy field to be selective,
and to not allow that
which is destructive,
whether it be a flu
virus, or whether it
be a negative thought?
>> NOORY: What is the
unified energy field, Randy?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well,
science came up with a concept
of unified field theory to be
able to explain all the actions
of matter, even in
its smallest forms.
But humans are much more
than Higgs boson particles.
I mean--
>> NOORY: We better be.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah, and
one of the things that came up
to me was does Higgs bosons have
consciousness or consciousness
Higgs bosons?
I mean, it's a very
simple question.
But what you're asking
is what is life force
and where does it fit into
this unified field theory?
And so, quantum
physics kind of steps
out there to give us an
opening to look at that.
But again, it
doesn't explain it.
It's incapable of explaining.
So now we have all the physics
we have, relativity and quantum
physics, quantum
mechanics, and yet, they're
all insufficient to
explain life force.
So we need another physics.
That's what I've been
working on for 30, 40 years.
>> NOORY: Does It all tie-in
to everything that we've done,
psychic abilities, astral
projection, remote viewing,
consciousness?
Is it all tied into one?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, and
those are aspects of life that
science ignores.
They poo-poo it.
They say there's
no validity to it.
The only validity in a
human life is experiential.
It's you.
It's your consciousness
and what you go through.
People say what's
the purpose of life.
To be you.
What's your purpose in life?
Being you, to be alive.
I mean, those are
base level programming
is to sustain life,
to promote life.
That's why in consciousness when
you see people destroying life,
whether it's human,
or animal, or plant,
it's like that's kind of
wrong at certain level,
because there's a feedback
mechanism of negativity that's
going to affect you
and affect your health.
>> NOORY: Oh my god.
In a big way too.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
Yes.
And so, people that are evil,
people that do things that are
destructive, tend to have health
issues we say much more than
people who don't.
>> NOORY: Interesting.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Do you believe
in extraterrestrial life?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
>> NOORY: Are they practicing
the same thing we should be
practicing?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Well, the
problem becomes like if we look
at extra dimensional
dimensions, intersections,
those have populations.
And so, everything from
ghosts to extraterrestrials
has an environment,
they have a reality,
they have a dimension,
a realm, a domain.
I mean, we have all
these names, and I
use a lot of computer
language for that reason.
>> NOORY: They may be
from that dimension.
Who knows, right?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, and
we don't know the extent.
So what happens if you get
kicked out of your body
through drugs, or
getting hit in the head,
or a mystical experience?
It's like you may end up in
one of these other dimensions.
So when somebody says
there's no such thing as ETs,
how do you know that?
And why would you
think they exist
in the same reality we do?
It's like there's about 28 to
30 intersections that make up
that humans interact with.
But we don't know.
ET maybe in 40 or 50, and
there's language for that
that I developed.
But, yes, why wouldn't
there be consciousness,
and why wouldn't it
exist all over the place?
>> NOORY: And I'm sure there is.
>> VEITENHEIMER: There is, yes.
>> NOORY: There's no doubt it.
>> VEITENHEIMER: So yes,
ET exists in the sense that
there's a reality to it, and
there's a reality somewhere.
And remember the intersections?
>> NOORY: Mhm.
>> VEITENHEIMER: You're
intersection with other people,
with people, places,
and things, right,
and your continued interaction
develops your ability to be
cognizant of it,
to be aware of it.
Remember integrated,
synchronized, congruent.
So when people say they
talked to ET, yes, they did.
When people say they saw pink
elephants, yes, they did.
When people describe events
that haven't happened yet,
like in remote viewing,
yes, that exists.
Does it exist here?
No, not yet.
And that's why we divided
up into zero and number one
reality.
You can have these thoughts.
You can see the
end of the world,
but it doesn't exist here yet.
>> NOORY: Yet.
>> VEITENHEIMER: It
exists over there.
ET exists over there.
Does it exist here?
Yes, without getting into
personal experiences,
yours or mine, because I
know all kinds of people
have had those experiences.
>> NOORY: How do you train
people to boost their energy
field?
>> VEITENHEIMER:
The book "Warday".
It started out as just a simple
little book of five things
you do every day.
And what it's doing,
is just like you have
a cup of coffee in the morning.
You're going to
increase the size
of your electromagnetic field.
And I tried it out
on a client I have.
She's 81 years old of time.
And she went from having
no energy field to having
about a 30 foot energy field.
>> NOORY: 30?
Wow!
>> VEITENHEIMER: And she is
a force to be reckoned with.
I mean like--
>> NOORY: She's a pistol.
>> VEITENHEIMER: Oh god, yes.
And what's interesting is, the
increase in the energy field
has resulted in the expansion
of her consciousness.
So she's very aware
of the information
we're talking about, much
more than she was before we
increased the energy field.
And she did it to herself.
I gave her the
exercises in support
of what I was doing with her.
And if you knew
her whole story, I
mean we're talking marriages,
and children, and--
>> NOORY: Ups and downs.
>> VEITENHEIMER:
Yeah, a typical life,
but she's one of the
healthiest people I know.
83 years old now, 84.
>> NOORY: What's the
single thing, Randy,
you would like people
to learn from your work?
>> VEITENHEIMER: To
sit theirselves down,
remove all inputs, TV,
radio, people, things.
It's contemplative meditation.
It's to be able to see if
you can just be George.
>> NOORY: Can everyone
increase their energy?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
Yes, I have PTSD clients.
I've had schizophrenic clients.
I've had-- and all of them when
you increase the energy, you
also increase consciousness.
>> NOORY: And they're
cured, basically?
>> VEITENHEIMER: They are
treated because ultimately--
>> NOORY: We don't use the
cure word I guess, do we?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Yes, ultimately
your future is determined
by you and what's available.
>> NOORY: What would you say,
based on your experience,
is the single biggest issue
some person has with themselves?
>> VEITENHEIMER: I think it's
been involved too much in zero
reality.
>> NOORY: And what
is zero reality?
>> VEITENHEIMER: Their thinking.
Their connection to
their thoughts literally,
because thinking
will wear you out.
You can sit all day
long and be so tired,
it's just like you'd
been pouring concrete
all day or something.
So the absence of
the self, the absence
of the essence of a person
present in your physical body
results in the
absence of the energy.
It results in, ultimately,
you not being yourself,
not have an energy.
It's like video game players.
They're in high alpha
states off the charts,
and they're not here.
You can sit there and
throw things at them
and they're playing
around with their game.
Now that's a conscious
state as opposed
to an unconscious state, like
in dream states and things
like that.
But once you remove
yourself from the balance
of zero and one, you
have problems either way.
In number one reality, you're
not aware of your surroundings
as much as you should be.
In zero reality, you're not
aware of-- you see what I mean?
It just goes back and forth.
So ultimately, balance.
That's why that duality
of reality thing
I was talking about
is that you should
have a balance in your life.
You should be involved
in the physical,
and you should be involved in
your imagination, creativity,
and being George.
What does it mean to be George?
It's things you do when you're
not working, when you're not
in a relationship, right?
That's being yourself.
>> NOORY: Randy, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>> VEITENHEIMER:
Thank you, George.
I appreciate being able
to talk about this.
>> NOORY: Well, every day--
every day you do this in your
Gaia program "Quantum Effect",
which is worth watching.
Just sit down and watch
it for an entire weekend.
It will really help you.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]